---
layout: post
title: Nitro and iBL changes July 2016
tagline: Preparing for September
category: APIs
tags:
  - bbc
  - nitro
  - api
  - ibl
published: true

---
A number of changes to both Nitro and iBL APIs this month.

In Nitro land, `clips` gained a `caption` element, of type string.

Two mixins moved from unstable to stable, and `release_status` `supported`, they are
`available_webcasts` and `available_simulcasts`.

In the iBL API, `programmes` gained a new boolean attribute `requires_tv_licence`, though this was
originally spelt `license` in the ibl.json schema file. This is no-doubt in preparation for
September's law change requiring all users of the TV iPlayer to have a TV licence. This is
interesting as it indicates this requirement will not apply to some content. How the
requirement to have a valid TV licence is to be enforced is something we will just have to
wait to find out.

A bit of digital archaeology turned up an old but interesting partial definition of the iBL
API which helped fill in a couple of missing endpoints, parameter descriptions etc. This 
[file](https://github.com/Mermade/bbcparse/blob/master/iblApi/iodocs.json)
would have been an excellent kick start to generating the Swagger specification, but might
also have limited my exploration of the available endpoints.

A [question](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/136417/using-the-bbc-iplayer-api-for-managing-tv-programs) on StackExchange's code-review site from a user of the iBL API.

After much searching, I also located a list of 
[Denton Guidance Codes](https://github.com/Mermade/bbcparse/wiki/Denton-guidance-codes), 
these cover such things as warnings for sexual and violent content. These are used by both the 
BBC Nitro and ITV Mercury APIs. More news on an 
[openItv](https://github.com/Mermade/openItv) project to cover this API as it happens.
