---
layout: post
title: March/April 2016 Nitro/iBL changes
tagline: An API miscellany
category: null
tags:
  - bbc
  - nitro
  - api
  - bbc3
published: true

---
The Open Nitro Project is joined by the Open iBL Project, and full Open-API (swagger) specifications now exist for both.

Both the input (parameters etc) and output (response models) of the Nitro API are automatically generated from the BBC's API specification
and XSD schema respectively.

The iBL input-side is manually generated but the response models are directly produced from the BBC JSON schema with just a few transformations
to cope with differences between the Swagger schema specification and JSON schema.

Both specifications have been accepted by [APIs-guru](https://apis-guru.github.io/) (a Wikipedia for web APIs) so are available automatically
in several linked projects.

The current version of the iBL API is v1.0 release 366.

Between release 360 and 363 the BBC iBL team fixed a couple of issues I reported to them via email. A couple of typo's
in the JSON Schema meant the model definitions were not being referenced properly. There was also a missing model (`store_version`).
Many thanks to the iBL guys for fixing this. The API has gained some editorial information with respect to episode
categories and titles.

[iBL Swagger documentation](http://mermade.github.io/swagger/index.html?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Mermade/bbcparse/master/iblApi/swagger.json)

The Nitro API continues to be verbosely self-documenting. A schema change now allows mixins to declare which filters affect their behaviour.
How useful this information is, is possibly a different question. The first example documents the interaction between the `availabile_versions` mixin 
and the `payment_type` filter.

In March support was added for unstable mixins. The schema allows for unstable sorts and filters too. Hopefully unstable relates to reproducibility,
pagination etc, rather than support levels, as Nitro already defines `release_status` of alpha, beta, supported and deprecated.

Answering my own question from a previous post, turning on debug information in the `availabilities` feed was as simple as adding a `debug=true` parameter 
to the Nitro call. This undocumented parameter has been patched into the Swagger documentation.

[Nitro Swagger documentation](http://mermade.github.io/swagger/index.html)